

Play Novel Silent Hill
The Boy's Spring Scenario
Version 1.25 - Last Updated 11/03/2016
Written by and copyright 2003-2016 Toby Normoyle. (loc182)


This is a translation of the flowchart analysis of the Boy's Spring scenario 
from the Japanese Official Konami guide book. Since this analysis is from a 
guide, many of the important details were left out, but it is the best 
information I have been able to find on the Boy and the Spring scenario so 
far.


Table of Contents

 1. The Boy?
 2. Credits
 3. The Spring Scenario
 4. Additional Pages Found in the Guide
 5. Conclusions and Hypotheses
 6. Translation Notes
 7. Contact Information and Update History
 8. Copyright Information



1. The Boy?

The Boy is a seven year old boy named Andy who lives in the house next to 
Harry and Cheryl Mason. He is also the main character of four scenarios that 
could be downloaded into the Play Novel Silent Hill cartridge via cellular 
phone. The four scenarios were named for each of the seasons, and thus there 
were spring, summer, fall, and winter scenarios.

Unfortunately it is true that the download service has ended, so it may be 
impossible to ever really play these scenarios; however, a few "lost memories" 
do remain. You can see a picture of Andy on the back of the box of this game. 
It is the one in the lower right corner. You can also see Andy in Cybil's
scenario. Just choose A as the last choice you make in chapter 2. This sends
you to the "lower" branch on the flowchart. Then once you reach chapter 7
choose A for the first choice you make. Then read text until you reach the
next choice. This time choose B and you will get to see Andy.



2. Credits

This document contains a partial translation/interpretation of pages 7, 60,
and 61 of the official Play Novel Silent Hill guide. This book was written by
Yusuke Yokoi, edited by the Konami CP Division, published by Konami, and
released by Futabasya as part of the Konami Kanpeki Kouryaku Series.
The ISBN number is 4-575-16265-5.

I would also like give special thanks to the people at the Konami CP Division 
for writing the best guides I have ever seen. They always go beyond just 
covering the game and include things such as interviews and developer Q&A. 
Considering the simplicity of the Spring scenario, I am extremely pleased that 
they chose to include it in their Play Novel Silent Hill guide.



3. The Spring Scenario

Compared to Harry's and Cybil's scenarios, the Spring scenario is very simple. 
There are only eight areas, two choices to make, two endings, and one digital 
trading card in this scenario. There may or may not be an introduction or an 
actual flowchart as the guide doesn't say anything either way. The guide also 
doesn't make any mention of how many pages of text are in each area. However, 
the guide does give a short description of the areas and shows how they are 
connected. That is what you will find the translation of here.

Since this scenario is so simple I have only listed directions when they are 
necessary. Just read each area and move on to the next unless directed 
otherwise.


Spring-1 Home

Andy goes through his usual morning routine of looking (out his bedroom 
window) for the girl who lives next door. He has become unsatisfied with 
just looking at her and wants to become friends.


Spring-2 Backyard (Background Picture: Black)

Andy sees Cheryl in the backyard and decides that it is finally time to talk 
to her. 

He...

A ) moves toward Cheryl and calls out to her.
     Go to Spring-3

B ) takes a deep breath to calm himself down.
     Go to Spring-4


Spring-3 Backyard

At the moment he tries to call out to her, the front door of her house opens 
and her father appears. Cheryl begins talking with her father.
Go to Spring-5


Spring-4 Backyard

In order to calm down, Andy closes his eyes and takes a deep breath. When he 
opens his eyes again Cheryl has disappeared.
Go to Spring-5


Spring-5 Inside the vehicle

After secretly sneaking into the vehicle Andy holds his breath so that he will 
not be discovered. Then the entire vehicle jerks hard......


Spring-6 Silent Hill (Background Picture: Andy standing on the edge where a  
road has collapsed)

Quickly realizing that Cheryl has gone missing, Andy walks around the town in 
order to look for her. 

Then...

A ) he hears someone's footsteps behind him.
     Go to Spring-7
 
B ) the precipice he is standing on crumbles.
     Go to Spring-8


Spring-7 Silent Hill

It is the sound of loafers clicking on the concrete. Perhaps it's Cheryl? Andy 
tries to turn around, but his body won't move.

The End 1-You now receive the First Sight card.


Spring-8 Silent Hill

The spot where Andy is standing suddenly crumbles away. His body is bumped as 
he rolls to the bottom of the incline. He is then unable to move for a 
while.

The End 2-You now receive the First Sight card.


(You get the First Sight card regardless of the ending you reach.)



4. Additional Pages Found in the Guide

The guide book shows a total of six actual screens from the Spring scenario.
Two of them are of the areas in which you make a choice, Spring-2 and Spring-6.
These two screen shots also give away a slight "error" in the layout of the
guide's flowchart and this translation of it. This is because any time you 
make a choice in this game the area is only one page of text, which contains 
the question and the choices. Thus the areas Spring-2 and Spring-6 are 
actually only the word or sentence with three periods (...) after it (the 
question) and the choices. The other sentences in each area are actually part 
of the preceding area (Spring-1 and Spring-5). The guide book always 
describes areas in which you make a choice this way to make it easier to 
understand the circumstances of the question.


One of the remaining four screen shots is fairly easy to place in the game. 
The background picture is of Andy looking through his window and it is 
almost certainly the first page of text from area Spring-1:

Every morning at 8 o'clock Andy gets out of bed and gazes out of the large 
window in his room. It appears to be pretty cold this morning. He wipes the 
foggy glass with the sleeve of his pajamas and the familiar yard of 
the house next door becomes visible.


As for one of the other three, I believe that it may also be a page of text 
from Spring-1 because it is a picture of Alessa in what doesn't appear to be 
Silent Hill. She is standing on a concrete walkway surrounded by grass and 
there are shadows of trees. The picture seems too bright to be in Silent Hill 
and is most likely Harry and Andy's neighborhood. In the picture, Alessa 
appears to be looking up at Andy. Although there is no direct evidence, I 
believe that Andy's room is on the second floor of his house, and he is 
looking down at her from his window. The concrete walkway that Alessa is 
standing on does look a lot like what is in front of Midwich Elementary 
school; however, the text here makes me think that this is probably somewhere 
before Spring-5 if it is not in Spring-1:

"Ah..."
Andy was unable to close his opened mouth for a short time.
The girl looks at Andy and brightly smiles. Then she opens the gate in a way 
that makes it appear heavy and disappears from Andy's view.


One of the other two shows Cheryl standing in front of a house. From the 
picture it is hard to say whether it is the front or back of the house. It 
appears to be dark in this picture, as there is a light on in the house. She 
is talking to Andy in the text, so I think this page is most likely part of 
both Spring-3 and Spring-4 or Spring-5:

"You're Andy, right? From next door..."
Andy nods. He is nervous and can't get any words out.

"Our school...is the same isn't it. I've known that for a while. My name is 
Cheryl. Nice to meet you."


The final screen shot is one that I originally missed because it was at the
beginning of the guide book, and not at the end with the others. I am quite
embarrassed to have missed this picture, but quite happy because I believe I
can place it in the scenario! The picture shows Andy standing on the edge of
a collapsed road, and is exactly the same as the picture in Spring-6. Based
on the text in this picture and the text in Spring-6, I am fairly confident
that this picture shows one of pages of text at the end of Spring-5. Based
on Andy's reaction at the end of this page, I have to wonder if he is just
upset because of the situation that he is now in, or if something important
happened in the previous pages:

The edge of the town appears to have fallen away like a sharp cliff. While
Andy looked down over the side he thought, "If Cheryl fell down here then I
would probably no longer be able to help her."

A few tears welled up in Andy's eyes.



5. Conclusions and Hypotheses

Sadly what the guide tells us about the Spring scenario only leaves more 
questions. While there is little or no actual proof either way, here are some 
theories I have on the missing pieces of this scenario.

While looking out the window for Cheryl, Andy sees Alessa walking up to the 
house in Spring-1.

In Harry's and Cybil's scenario, different choices often lead to the same 
outcome. I believe that Andy meets Cheryl at the end of both areas Spring-3 
and Spring-4. It is also possible that this happens in Spring-5 because the 
guide states that this scenario begins just before Harry and Cheryl leave for 
Silent Hill.

Andy is probably hiding in Harry's jeep in Spring-5. The limited description 
we have supports this.

It is possible that the ending for Spring-7 could lead to the event in Cybil's 
scenario with Andy, but this is just speculation.



6. Translation Notes

Although I am confident in my work, there may be minor context errors in what 
I have translated here since I do not have access to all the text. There is 
also a chance that typos may have made it into the guide book.

Because of the limited summaries written for each area, the questions in both 
of the areas with choices, Spring-2 and Spring-6, are not quite perfectly
translated. This is because I don't have access to the text that leads to the 
questions, only the summaries in the guide book. For example, in Spring-5 
(Please keep in mind that the first sentence of Spring-6 in the above 
translation is actually part of Spring-5 as mentioned before.) the only 
information I have is that Andy looks around town for Cheryl. The actual 
question in Spring-6 is possible to translate as "Then" as I did, but the true 
meaning is somewhat compromised. "At that moment" or "After he does XX" might 
be more appropriate, but we don't know what his final action was in Spring-5 
so I used "Then..." as it connects better with the translation of the summary.

The book describes the "First Sight" digital trading card as "Andy through the 
glass." This means that this card is either the entire or a part of the 
picture of Andy found on the back of the box. You can now see this card by 
downloading the save data I posted on GameFAQs that gives you all 32 cards!



7. Contact Information and Update History

If you need to contact me about something in this guide I can be contacted at: 
toby at atomicillumination.com
Naturally the word "at" represents the @ symbol. This is done to help avoid 
spam.

You can also send me a message via GameFAQs.

I try to always respond, but unfortunately I don't check either of these
addresses more than once a month. So please be patient after sending
me a message.

Also, apologies to anyone who sent a message to the old Excite email I
used to list here. That service cancels the mailbox after 90 days of
disuse, which resulted in the loss of many messages.

Unfortunately I have no other information on any of the Boy scenarios, so 
please do not ask me if I do. I wish I did, but I really don't.

As of 07/27/2007 I have searched the following sources for information on the 
Boy scenarios. If you have any information, or know of a source that may
contain information that is not listed here then please contact me or post a 
message on the GameFAQs Play Novel Silent Hill board. Thank you!

Art of Silent Hill DVD
Lost Memories - The Art & Music of Silent Hill DVD
Silent Hill 3 Program ("Sketchbook" included with SH3 Special Edition)
Lost Memories - Silent Hill Chronicle ISBN 4-7571-8145-0
Silent Hill 2 Official Guide Complete ISBN 4-575-16291-4
Silent Hill 2 Official Guide ISBN 4-575-16286-8
Silent Hill 2 SAIGO NO UTA Official Guide ISBN 4-7571-8119-1

Sadly none of the above sources contained any new information on the Boy.

Update history:

12/??/2003 - First submission to GameFAQs.
12/26/2004 - Version 1.1 - Just fixed some grammar and typos.
07/27/2007 - Version 1.2 - Added a new page found in the guide book. Fixed
             more typos and grammar issues than I would like to admit : )
11/03/2016 - Updated the contact info.



8. Copyright Information and Update History

Play Novel Silent Hill
The Boy's Spring Scenario
Version 1.25 - Last Updated 11/03/2016
Written by and copyright 2003-2016 Toby Normoyle. (loc182)

This work may be not be reproduced under any circumstances except for 
free distribution per the conditions noted below. Otherwise, it may not be
placed on any web site or otherwise distributed publicly for profit. Use
of this guide in such a manner is strictly prohibited, and a violation of
copyright.

Posting Information:

  - You can post this guide on your site as long as it is free for anyone
    to look at, you do not modify it, and your site generally concerns
    Silent Hill. (I would prefer not to see this appear on general cheat code
    sites, it really just belongs on Silent Hill related ones.)

  - If your site charges an access fee or requires users to signup in order
    to view this guide then you may not post it.

  - Updates will only be posted at GameFAQs.

All trademarks and copyrights contained in this document are owned by 
their respective trademark and copyright holders.

